>> Steve Kinney: We'll take a look at
some of the first few tests first.
We'll look at parse.test.js.
So it should return a token of the same
numerical level for tokens, right?
So hey, if you come across
a number in our token bin,
why don't you turn this into
a numeric literal, right?
And so this is just for the number two.
The number two would have just been turned
into one number token with a value of 2.
And we turn it into the actual
literal syntax, right,
and this is mostly because
that's what value this is.
And so that will be the kind of the first
thing and then we can say okay strings,
should become string literals,
names become identifiers, right?
For a lot of our values,
they're pretty straightforward.
And then we'll start to string some stuff
together with some call expressions and
stuff along those lines.
So we're gonna kinda
do this in two phases.
We're gonna use those
parentheses to kind of inspire
what the kind of hierarchical syntax is.
And then we'll actually parse
the values to actually figure out
the rest of the tree.
So let's head into parse.js.
And you can see that I've done
a teeny bit of work for you.
So I've got these utilities here and
this opening parenthesis and
this closing parenthesis
should need no introduction.
You can imagine what they do.
Peek and pop are kind of
functional programming things.
Peek looks at the first thing in an array.
So it's like what is the next token,
right?
And pop gives you the first
thing off the array.
So it's basically a way to look at
the stack of tokens that we picked up.
All right, so let's go ahead and
kinda get the general kinda
structure in place here which is,
we'll say, parse.
Parse is gonna take our tokens.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll start with our very first token.
>> Steve Kinney: So pop it off the front.
>> Steve Kinney: If the token.type,
>> Steve Kinney: Is a number.
And this is one of those things where
honestly when I was doing this for
realsies I had a is number token
helper and I never thought about it.
I never thought about the fact that
I would mistype number ever again.
But I'm not doing that just for
the sake of clarity, right?
If I do too many helpers
like this is cool,
[LAUGH] I don't really
know what's going on.
So then we'll return and I would again use
a function almost like an action creator
on my Redux to make the actual object,
cuz I don't trust myself.
>> Steve Kinney: NumericLiteral, but
I'm pair programming with a live chat and
eight other people in the room.
If I make any mistakes,
everyone will immediately tell me.
So I don't have to worry
about any of that stuff.
>> Steve Kinney: Token.value.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and
that should kind of pop that out.
I need to just adjust this real quick, cuz
this is eventually what it'll look like.
First, we're gonna parenthesize,
which is use those parentheses
to create our data structure.
We don't fully have that yet.
I mean, I have this empty thing I
can just kinda immediately return.
Let's actually do that.
>> Steve Kinney: That should do the trick.
We'll find out when I unskip the test,
though, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Let's
unskip the first one and
see if I've done anything terrible.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
first one passes, doing so far so good.
I'd love for you to get the identifiers
in the strings working.
Should be real quick,
it's the same basic pattern.
They're still just single values,
if just a string comes in or
just an identifier comes in.
So it's the same basic
pattern that we have there.
So I have set up the ability
to find a single number.
We have a token with just a number in it,
right?
We can go ahead and turn that into
the appropriate abstract syntax tree node.
It's not really a tree
with only one node on it,
it's just a leaf kinda hanging out there.
But we have that in place and we're
gonna kinda use that cuz effectively,
at the end of the day,
our call expressions are branches.
And the tree ends when you get to
something that only has either
an identifier, a string,
or a number, right?
So we're gonna input the kinda
ends of our trees first.
So here we have Number.
The exercise that I want you to
do is we have two more tests.
We have tests for implementing the exact
same pattern for our identifiers, right,
those would be our function names,
and our strings.
So those tests over in parse.test.js
always have Exercise 3 Begin.
Your job is to get these two passing and
I'll see you back here.